Source: Apartment List - Best Neighborhoods in Atl, GA for college students
URL: https://www.apartmentlist.com/renter-life/atlanta-college-neighborhoods
Content:
5 Best College Neighborhoods in Atlanta, GA
By: Davina Ward
February 25, 2022

Atlanta is one of the nation’s college hubs, where you’ll find an impressively dense collection of higher education facilities. Georgia State University, Emory University, Spelman, Morehouse, and Georgia Tech are among the city’s most prominent universities.

Wherever you choose to attend college in Atlanta, you’ll likely find yourself in need of off-campus housing. Fortunately, Atlanta offers many housing options for college students spread across a unique and, frankly, fun selection of diverse neighborhoods.

If you’re a college student looking for an apartment in Atlanta, we’ve got you covered! This guide has everything you need to know about choosing the right college neighborhood in Atlanta.

Bridge crossing lake at Atlantic Station in Midtown Atlanta

What to Look for in a College Neighborhood
Not all college neighborhoods are created equal. Some neighborhoods will be a better fit for you than others. Figuring out which college neighborhood characteristics you prefer is completely up to you!

However, while your preferences are uniquely yours, there are some neighborhood characteristics that every college student should consider when looking for the best match.

Here’s a look at some of the most important things to look for in a college neighborhood.

Potential Student Discounts
Student discounts are a student renter’s bread and butter. Landlords or property managers looking to maximize their tenant candidacy pool often offer these unique discounts.

Student discounts are similar to move-in specials. Renters may benefit from reduced rent rates and waived or discounted fees. While they may not be steep discounts, every penny counts!

Another upside of finding an apartment that offers student discounts is that the landlord or property manager is used to renting to students, meaning you won’t need to present a detailed rental history or proof of income.

Many places will accept proof of student refund checks as payment, parent or guardian cosigners, and other student-adjusted renting protocols. In short, the rental process will be tailored to student renters, making it easier for you to land your new home!

So, keep your eyes peeled for listings with student discounts.

How Walkable the Neighborhood Is
How will you be getting around as a college student?

Atlanta’s traffic can be a bit overwhelming at times. More specifically, rush hour can be a nightmare of wasted time and aggressive drivers. But, on the upside, it will be a lot easier to get around.

When driving a personal vehicle, keep an eye out for neighborhoods with easy access to the interstate. This will likely save you time during your commute.

If you plan on using public transportation, check out neighborhoods along major transit routes. Atlanta’s MARTA service offers bus and rail options that should allow you to get to where you need to be without too much hassle.

Finally, if you’ll be getting around on foot or by bike, review the neighborhood’s walkability. Major amenities like grocery stores, laundromats, and gyms should be within walking distance wherever you live.

What Entertainment is Available
If you’re living your best life during your college years, chances are you’ll take some of that time to engage in a little R&R in the form of local entertainment.

So, whether you’re a party hound who enjoys frequenting lively clubs and bars on your nights off or a laid-back soul who enjoys the thrill of exploring a new café, choose a neighborhood that best suits your recreation style.

A student walks past the historic buildings on the Georgia Tech campus in Atlanta

5 Best College Neighborhoods in Atlanta
Atlanta is a college city with many universities packed into the city proper. However, when you extend the boundaries to include the entire Atlanta region, you may find yourself baffled by the sheer density of higher education institutions in the area.

As a college student looking for housing, this density is excellent news! You’ll find that most neighborhoods play host to a significant population of college students, so there’s always an opportunity to socialize and make solid connections.

That said, Atlanta offers a ton of awesome college neighborhood options. If you’re unsure where to start your search, rest assured. You’re already in the right place.

Here’s a look at the top five college neighborhoods in Atlanta.

1. Buckhead
Buckhead isn’t exactly known for its affordability, but if you can swing it, this wealthy neighborhood has a lot to offer any college student.

The neighborhood’s high-rises and luxury apartments set an impressive upscale vibe. On the surface, renting in Buckhead may seem impossible for a college student, but you can significantly reduce your costs if you choose to rent with roommates.

Although not everyone wants to share a space, gaining access to one of Atlanta’s premier neighborhoods without breaking the bank may be worth it.

The 268 acres in Buckhead’s Chastain Park grants residents a wealth of opportunities to enjoy Atlanta’s weather, the green outdoors, and fresh air without ever leaving the neighborhood.

It also doesn’t hurt that the neighborhood has a decent nightlife scene, is home to a thriving tech hub, and offers some public transportation options. In short, Buckhead is a good option for a college student group looking for a shared rental situation in an upscale neighborhood.

2. Midtown
Midtown’s student population heavily consists of Georgia Tech students, as the campus is local. However, if you’re a student at one of Atlanta’s other major universities, you can still feel at home in this neighborhood.

The neighborhood’s most famous street is Peachtree Street, which hosts the city’s major annual parades, boasts historic architecture, and is one of the busiest parts of the city. Many residents make their way into and out of the neighborhood via local MARTA options.

Midtown’s business district is one of the biggest in the city, though not as large as Downtown’s. That said, living near one of the city’s central business hubs may make it easier to source and land an internship or entry job position.

Beyond work, Midtown offers a ton of opportunities for play. There’s always something to do in the neighborhood. One of the neighborhood’s famed attractions is the massive drive-in restaurant! There are also plenty of other restaurants to choose from alongside an excellent nightlife scene.

You’ll find a nice collection of housing options in Midtown, ranging from single-family homes to high-rise apartments. However, if you’re struggling to decide which kind of apartment is right for you, the key is to find an apartment you can afford.

3. West Midtown
West Midtown gets its name based on its location, as it’s west of Midtown. Although the neighborhood’s name makes it seem like an afterthought, West Midtown has a lot going for it as an option for a college student.

The neighborhood’s history as an industrial hub bleeds into its current form. Many residences are the remains of old, disused warehouses and factories. So, if you’ve always imagined your college days spent studying in a loft apartment, West Midtown can make your dreams come true.

Fortunately, the neighborhood isn’t stuck in the past and has plenty of modern touches. The neighborhood is home to a thriving arts district with four arts centers within its borders. So, if you’re an art student, you’ll feel right at home!

West Midtown isn’t lacking in entertainment options. The neighborhood boasts live music venues, excellent food options, and plenty of chances to engage in a little retail therapy if that’s your jam.

4. Atlantic Station
Atlantic Station is a neighborhood built for green lovers, thanks to its deep appreciation for eco-friendly decisions and spaces. Atlantic Station is built with the planet and the environment in mind, with tons of LEED-certified buildings focusing on non-car travel within the area.

You’ll find a designated bike lane running through the neighborhood, a free shuttle connecting the neighborhood to the Arts Center MARTA rail station and the 110 St. MARTA Bus Route, and the entire neighborhood is walkable to boot!

You can spend time frequenting sports bars, shopping, or using the ice-skating rink (yes, you can ice skate in the South!). You shouldn’t find it too challenging to make friends, as Atlantic Station is practically bursting with student residents.

5. Downtown
At the heart of Atlanta’s reputation as the New York City of the South is a bustling downtown center located in the heart of the city. “Bustling” is the right word when it comes to describing Downtown Atlanta.

Besides being home to the city’s two major league sports teams, The Atlanta Falcons (NFL) and the Atlanta Hawks (NBA), Downtown is also home to Georgia State University.

Speaking of GSU, the academic institution has driven the expansion and development in Downtown Atlanta. The university’s major buildings include its sporting facilities, academic buildings, and more.

Downtown will make for an excellent home base for those looking to maximize their public transport options. The Downtown Connector runs through the metro area and is the centralized hub for those who want to get all around the city.

As with any city center, Downtown Atlanta offers a veritable gold mine of entertainment and recreation options. So, if you’re looking to make the most of your college experience by enjoying your time in and out of class, living Downtown is a great way to make it happen!

Final Thoughts
Choosing the best college neighborhood in Atlanta for you will take some time and effort! However, the outcome is a place to call home as you enjoy the rest of your college days.

When you determine your neighborhood preferences, check out Apartment List to find your dream apartment. Take our quiz to get started!